Black like everybody

By Don Cornwell ASOC Vice-President


The most common criticism of the recent Black-White Confrontation was the
alleged failure of the black students to present tangible issues. Many white students felt that the grievances brought out were too intangible to discuss, and too unsubstantiated to believe. My initial reaction to this criticism was to dismiss it as the rationalization  of a guilty soul.

I have since been convicted that this criticism cannot and should not be dismissed
so lightly. It appears rather that the black and white students were communicating on
different levels. The white students, by and large, seem to be rooted in the civil rights
tradition, and if this is true, then I can understand why no problems would be seen.
After all, the bathrooms, the Union, the Greek houses, the dormitories, etc., all
seem to be open to most anyone regardless of race, creed, or previous condition of
servitude. The only acts of racial violence known to me have been performed by Eagle
Rock "brats," and as of this writing, the A.S.O.C. Senate had not officially sanctioned the Ku Klux Klan 
as a campus organization. Based on these criteria, there is no problem at Occidental College.

There is another perspective from which to view this matter. Some of the comments
made by the black students at the Forum indicated that there definitely is a race
problem at Occidental. It is not a problem of racial violence, nor a problem of access
to campus facilities, nor even a problem of access to social organization. It appears
instead a problem of racial respect. If you refer back to the comments Brenda Shockley made about professorial attitudes toward her attending Howard as opposed to an "integrated" university, you find a
perfect example of this attitude. She said, "Profs ask me why I want to go to an all-black Howard Law School. 

"It never crosses their mind that Howard has as many whites as Oxy has blacks—
but Oxy is integrated and Howard is all black." Why do some professors view her
attending an "all-black school" in this way? Or take the example of the white
student who feels threatened because two or more black people congregate together.
Why doesn't this person feel the same way when two or more whites stand and talk
together?

If integration is racial interaction [I assure you that I don't believe that it is],
and nothing more, then why is a black-b'ack combination more of a denial of
integration than a white-white grouping? Is there an implication inherent that white
is good, whereas black is bad? Does integration really only mean that
blacks will be given a chance to be with whites, instead of with other Negroes?
From my perspective, much of the race question hinges on the answer to these
questions. If there is something wrong with being black at Occidental College, as
there definitely is in the rest of the country, then race relations will not improve until
this state of affairs is changed. You ask yourself this question—What is wrong with
being black?