Sunday forum: black and
white in confrontation
By Michael Dunn
This Sunday, the much discussed
Black/White Confrontation will be
presented by the Sunday Forum at
7 p.m. The discussion focuses on the
campus racial situation, its effects
and solutions.
In its quest for objectivity the
forum will incorporate on its panels
every shade of opinion they can find;
included are faculty members, representatives of the administration,

Image of JOE COLON

Negro students within and without
the newly formed [and Administration rejected] Black Student Caucus,
Fraternity men and non-orgs, Liberals
and conservatives.
When asked about the up-coming
program chaplain Wallace Smith said
that he considered it the most import-
ant event this year: "I don't think
we're facing up to a real problem we
have here, one that I've noticed in
only the few months I've been here."
The Forum will be moderated by
Dr. Josselyn. The student panel will
be made up of Jóse Colon, Don Corn-
well, Brenda Shockley, Gene Moore,
Sheila Wills, Barbara Lyles, Craig
Lehman, Steve Peters, and Alice
Walker. Dean Ryf, Mr. Collins, and
Mrs. Anderson will be on hand as the
ears, eyes, and voice of the administration. All the members of the
Admissions Committee have been
urged to attend and new students
may be added to the panel at any
time.
The first order of business will be
to decide if there is a racial problem
at all at Oxy and if there is, what
are its ramifications. Certainly one
of the problems to be discussed will
be the fate of the Black Student
Caucus, its immediate plans and its
larger goals. There has been much
concern about the racial implications
of the admissions policy and particularly where it affects the Upward
Bound program. These questions will
undoubtedly be aired. Jerry Stinson,
organizer of the forum considers the
effect of the new culture faced by
the ghetto student as he enters the
ivy-covered stucco of Occidental to
be worth discussion and many
agree with him. Jóse Colon sees a
problem in the Whites' ignorance of
the Negros' value dilemma in his decision to be a part of or outside the
white system. Curriculum will be an
important topic and particularly the
death of African studies in the civil
program. But primarily it will ex-
amine the student-to-student relations
and how they are affected by the
race problem.
All are invited, not only to listen,
but to participate and share their
views and suggestions on the topic.
A confrontation calls for all parties
to present their ideas, and this is
what is sincerely hoped.