
Admissions policy hit
Photo by Dave Glbas

300 see black-white confrontation
By Charles Dulaney
Over three hundred people gath-
ered in Herrick Hall last Sunday
night and heard students faculty and
administrators exchange views on the
race problem at Occidental.
"Black-White Confrontation" was
the title of the Sunday Forum which
was constructed around a panel com-
posed of seven Negro students, and
two whites. Dr. Frank Josselyn mod-
erated the discussion and opened the
evtning by pointing out the
ground rule that each speaker
voice his feelings honestly and
openly.

An interpersonal problem:

Opening speaker Jose Colon was primarily concerned with the manner in which color affects relationships
between individuals on campus. "I think that basically there is an inability of Oxy students to transcend
color in interpersonal relations," he said. The problem of personal conflict's was soon left far behind, how-
ever, as the discussion centered on problems within the campus structure.
Don Cornwell pointed out that there is no way that a person can separate Oxy from the real world
"Oxy is a white school, and the world is a white world." He felt that
the college has failed to prepare for the fact that there are many people on the campus and in the world who are not white and whose concerns are
not the concerns of whites.
Specific criticisms which he had
were mainly in the area of curriculum. He felt it was indicative that
there is nothing offered in the areas of jazz, African art, Negro history, or
on the tremendous impact which civil rights and men such as Malcolm X
have had on contemporary American history.


Hypocrisy criticized:
Hypocrisy permeating most facets of Occidental life was the theme of
Alice Walker's and Sheila Wills' presentations. Alice felt that white
students are far too willing to talk to you in the quad and then return
to their fraternity house where a one-man "ding" system institutionalizes bigotry. She accused professors
of when the chips were down of falling back on a preconceived idea that Negro students will perform in class.Sheila indicted the administration for acquiescing to parents that demand that their daughter
be transferred to another room rather than let her room with a Negro. In regards to the Admissions department she said, "They have a preconception that every black student here is just
barely making it, and the professors perpetuate it."

'I feel very naive’:
Ginny Duprey ended the first part of the evening by stating, "I feel very
naive. I came to Oxy extremely openminded. . . But when a Negro comes
here, hypocrisy is evident something we aren't even aware of."
She concluded that "our job now is to get rid of a closed mind we don't
even know exists."
At this point the discussion was
thrown open to other members of the
panel. Barbara Lyles questioned.
whether Negro students would choose
to come to Occidental if they know
beforehand what the community and
all its inherent problems would be
like. Sheila, on the other hand, felt
it important that whites be told that
Negroes are being accepted and be
made aware that problems exist.
Brenda Shockley offered perhaps
the most biting comments of the evening. "I've always played that game
of being first Negro or only Negro. At Oxy it hasn't been any different
except that a year ago I got tired of the game I'm more concerned with me, and black people, and where
we're going—not with the civil rights movement or with integration
…We're not on the same level any more. Profs ask me why I want to go
to an all-black Howard Law School. It never crosses their mind that
Howard has as many whites as Oxy has blacks but Oxy is integrated
and Howard is all black."
"The formation of the black student caucus is the first indication of
facing the issues," asserted Alice
Walker, who felt that people at Occidental will go out of their way to
hide behind an easy rationalization."People have to realize that basis for
interaction is not similarity. People who are different can communicate."
Concluding the evening, comments,questions and answers were sought
from the audience. Statements centered on Admissions Director Collins
and the director of the Occidental Upward Bound program Marguerite Archie.

The Administrators answers:
Collins was called upon to answer the charges which had been raised
during the evening. "The facts aren't right," he said in reference to the
examples used. He pointed out that the entire forum had been largely
backed by the Admissions department in order to clear up certain popular
misconceptions. Collins felt that his staff did as good a job as possible in informing
and preparing Negro students for the problems which they would face on
coming to Occidental. Later he pointed out that it is almost impossible to
explain personal rejection over racial lines to a Negro student from the
ghetto who has never had to lead a social existence in what has the potential of being a hostile atmosphere.
As regards recruitment, he had to ask, "How much do you go beyond
the status-quo and thereby attract students who might come here and
change it? If we take these risks [students from underprivileged back-
grounds and second-rate educations] are we doing these kids any favor at
all? .. It's up to the faculty and administration to say if we can have
programs that can accommodate these kids then we'll go out and
get them."

Don't recruit risks:
Mrs. Archie stated that she felt that Occidental should not recruit
academic risks but rather Mexican-American and Negro students who
look more like the rest of the student body. Otherwise hangups on both
sides are perpetuated. She has come to this opinion through a growing
awareness of how rigorous Occidental can be, both socially and academically, to an incoming freshman.
Administrators' reactions to the Forum generally moved along the
same line: "Black-White Confrontation," they felt, was fine for raising
questions and releasing feelings, but it shouldn't stop there.
Students should respond by examining the situation more closely and 
acknowledging that our school is not the "racial paradise" which some seem to assume.
