(Continued on Page 2)
Negro
'Caucus'
chartered
The Black Student Caucus of Occidental College was voted into existence last Tuesday by the ASOC Sen-
ate. A provisional charter was grant-
ed to a group whose spokesman Joe
Duff stated, "We are telling ourselves
that we are going to develop as Negroes."
In trying to explain the rationale
behind the creation of the group,
Duff stated five facets the Caucus
will try to reflect. First there was
self-discovery, "an attempt to discover our identity both communally
and individually." Facilitating this
self-awareness process will be education, "an aid to personal enlightenment and self-discovery." He explained, "We intend to accumulate as
much information in any form concerning ourselves and that which affects us particularly as being black."
Social interaction, which was explained as broadening of the base of
the group's fellowship, was a third
facet. Finally there were political activity and communications. Here some
discussion took place between the
Senate and Duff. Responding to a
query as to "the political purpose"
of the organization, he said, "What
we are going to do depends on what
the members want to do." No specific
examples of action could be listed
since only three organizational meetings have taken place, and the primary goal is that of personal awareness and communication.
Residence Senator Joe Colon was
curious as to how the Caucus, which
will be open only to black members
of the Occidental community, could
reconcile its policy in light of the
ruling that all Fraternities must
maintain an autonomy from the racial bars of the national organizations. The answer pointed out that
the Caucus will not serve as a social
organization, and that it would be
defeating it's major purpose if it
maintained a white membership.
Duff sees the formation of the
group as part of a large movement
among American campuses. "There
has been a growing desire for identity
in the Negro community", and the
Black Student Caucus is just one
manifestation of it.
The charter is provisional for one
year, during which the ASOC can call
it back at any time for reexaminaion. At the end of the year, a constitution will be submitted and the
group will become a permanent campus organization.