These are the demands presented to President Gilman by the Black Student’s Caucus on May 24, 1968:

Occidental College must make a radical commitment to multi-racial education.
We demand that the following be instituted by September 23, 1968. 
1. Institute a public policy of buying from non-discriminatory suppliers and contractors. The college must not support in any way, suppliers and contractors who have discriminatory policies.
2. Minority students must be given control of minority admissions.
3.Establish immediate faculty and student exchanges with Fisk University, Morehouse College, Talladega College, Dillard College, or Boogaloo College.
4. Funds must be made available to the Black Students’ Caucus in the amount of $15,000 to set up a tutorial and counseling program for Black students on this campus.
5. Hire a Black assistant for the Urban Studies Program.
6. Funds must be made available to the Black Students’ Caucus in the amount of $5,000 to set up a program to bring Black speakers to the campus; or a similar amount to be spent to bring prominent Black speakers to the regular convocations. 
7. Add the following	 courses to the curriculum:
	a. Swahili
	b. Black Literature
	c. African Art
	d. Peoples of Africa
	Black professors must be employed to teach these courses. 
8. Black students must be given preference to college-owned off-campus housing. 

Signed:
Black Students’ Caucus

I. 
This would mean that in the future, Occidental College must employ non-discriminatory contractors to build the additions to the library, Emmons Memorial Health Center, Moore Laboratory. We mean that the Cooler, the Union, and the Bookstore must not purchase supplies from companies that are known to have discriminatory policies. The college must not support, in any way, an oppressive (racist) system.

II.
Minority students, faculty, and administrators must be given control of minority admissions. A committee directly responsible for minority admissions and financial aid shall have a Black chairman and majority of its members shall come from minority groups. Further, Black people must be responsible for the recruitment of potential Black students.

III.
Occidental College must establish an exchange with one of these institutions to be handled in the same way as the Washington semester program with American University. At least three professors and at least as many students as are granted International Fellowships must participate I this program. Black students must be given priority.

IV.
These monies will be used to employ a Black counselor, materials, and to pay Black Student Caucus members for their services. All applicants for the position of counselor will be reviewed and interviewed by a committee which will include Black Student Caucus members on campus this summer. 

V. 
Many graduate students and professors are qualified and available to fulfill this position.

VI. 
We demand, and we repeat, prominent Black (emphasized) speakers.

VII.
Certain professors have stated that it would be very easy to teach Swahili in the fall. All that is needed are tapes. We know of at least one person who is qualified to teach this course.

The individual professor will decide on course content on African Art and Black Literature.

Peoples of Africa is a sociology course which would be under the Sociology Department.

VIII.
Since Occidental College is located in a racist community, Black students must be given preference to college owned off-campus housing for as long as necessary. 

The Black Students' Caucus 

