Black Caucus: Racism
(Oxy's Black Students' Caucus submitted
the following article. We appreciate their
concern for communication and hope for
written response from whites.-Eds.)

The National Advisory Commission
on Civil Disorders recently concluded
that "white racism is essentially responsible for the explosive mixture
... accumulating in our cities..."
However, by not describing personal
prejudice the Commission has, in effect, let the bulk of white America
escape the "white racism" charge. In
the public mind the synonym for "racism" is "bigotry," and most Americans are not and/or do not consider
themselves bigots. But the "racism"
referred to also encompasses the more
subtle beliefs and behavior of most
white Americans about Negroes.
For example, many Negroes are
continuously asked, "What are these
riots all about?" What do Negroes
want?" or "What are they thinking
and doing down there in the ghetto?"
These questions point out the inability
of whites to perceive that they share
common humanity with blacks
which, if considered, might help
whites understand "what they're
thinking," "what they want," and especially "why they want it."

Racism is also manifested in refusals to give credence to the various
attempts many Negroes have used to
achieve dignity. For example, some
whites are outraged by Black Power
(or any other organization with
"Black" in its title), upset by natural
hair, and derisive of Muhammed Ali's
name change.

More importantly, the phrase
"Black Power" urges the development
of political awareness, a pooling of
black financial resources, and a psychological call to manhood and racial
pride through identification with the
African past. Only a few use the
phrase as a call for black people to
arm themselves against the white
community. In reality the call for
Black Power is a reaction to the failure of white power.

There is also the "Negroes are all
right, but" syndrome. (But what
about their crime rate, unstable fam-
ily structure, dependence on welfare,
etc?). In this case minorities are view-
ed as examples of inferiority, not as
products of the centuries of systematic exclusion from "upright" society.
Some whites act as if the history of
the Negro in America had never happened. They forget that it was slavery
that tore apart Negro families. The
Emancipation Proclamation, designed
to correct this and other injustices,
was like freeing a man who had been
unjustly imprisoned for years, and on
discovering his innocence sending him
out with no bus fare to get home, no
suit to cover his body, no financial
compensation to atone for his long
years of incarceration and to help him.
get a sound footing in society; sending
him out with only the assertion:
"Now you are free."

White society has even developed
semantics to make that which is black
seem ugly and degrading. Dr. Martin
Luther King, in his book Where Do
We Go From Here, notes that "In
Roget's Thesaurus there are 120 synonyms for 'blackness' and at least 60
of them are offensive-such words
as 'blot,' 'grime,' 'devil,' and 'foul.'
There are 134 synonyms for 'white-
ness,' and all are favorable, expressed
in such words as 'purity,' 'cleanliness,'
'chastity,' and 'innocence.' A white lie
is better than a black lie, and the
most degenerate member of a family
is the black sheep, not the white
sheep."

Finally, our history books have al-
most completely ignored the contribution of the Negro in American his-
tory. How many whites know that
the first American to shed blood in
the revolution which freed this country from British oppression was a
black seaman named Crispus Attucks? And that the first successful
operation on the heart in America
was performed by Dr. Daniel Hale
Williams, a Negro physician? And
that another Negro physician, Dr.
Charles Drew, was largely responsible
for developing the method of separating blood plasma and storing it on a
large scale, a process that saved thou-
sands of lives in World War II and
has made possible many of the important advances in postwar medicine
(Ironically, Dr. Drew died a short
time ago from loss of blood when he
was denied admittance to a segregated hospital in the South). And that
Granville T. Woods, an expert in electric motors who speeded the growth
and improvement of the railroads at
the beginning of this century, was a
Negro? More importantly, how many
whites are doing anything to insure
that their children's history books
provide the whole truth?

Dr. King has said, "We are now
faced with the fact that tomorrow is
today." It is time for white Americans
to realize that they have a real problem. They must understand the reasons for black hostility and frustration, and learn a whole new set of
habits and ways of interacting with
Negroes if this hostility and frustration is to be resolved. If each of us
would strive to overcome apathy in
his own way, by positive action, the
goal of brotherhood and equality
would be reached and we could truly
say "We hold these truths to be self
evident, that all men are created
equal."